welcome to another episode of impact
theory today we're going to be talking
all about how to think about
imperfections
[Music]
let's get into it because this is an
important topic that you guys are all
going to want to master and by the end
of this video
you are going to have mastered dealing
with your imperfections here we go
how do you stop beating yourself up for
the things you had to neglect in order
to be
good at something else all right here's
how we do it
one perfectionism isn't
going to be the thing that serves you
what you want to do is focus on what
goal are you trying to attain and then
what's it going to take to get to that
goal 99 times out of 100
when you're doing something let's say
at 80 perfect you get the result you get
the vast majority of the accolades or
the success metrics all of it can be got
without having to go all the way to that
last 20 and that last 20 is when you can
drive yourself absolutely insane
so you want to be really thoughtful
about what standard you're holding
yourself to because if all you're
thinking is man it's all the way or it
is nothing
then what you have to admit is your goal
is perfection your goal isn't the thing
you're trying to accomplish right the
goal isn't to be a better
parent or a better spouse or better at
your job the goal as you are behaving is
perfection
now if when you say yes my goal is
perfection it's not the thing that i'm
doing it's it is being perfect so if i'm
going to brush my teeth i'm going to
brush my teeth perfectly
wonderful then at least you're being
honest and just know that by trying to
be that perfect you're going to far
narrow the scope of things that you can
do in a way that you wouldn't have to at
least not as much if you were say i'm
just after this goal by this date
and i may have to win ugly but i'm going
to get there
now that attitude gives you a lot more
freedom you can get in there you can
throw punches you can get muddy but as
long as you get to the end and you get
across the line and you get that victory
and that was what it was about then
things get a lot more interesting a
you're not going to be paralyzed by
perfectionism b you're valuing yourself
for achieving that thing going through
it fighting through the mud crawling
making mistakes all of that but you got
there in the end and then the big thing
in all of this
is
priority order and this is where people
really struggle you have to be willing
to put things in order now this is where
people struggle because they feel a
tremendous sense of guilt that they have
to do all of those things as their
number one priority
let me break that for you you cannot
have multiple number one priorities you
can't do it so i'll give you my life how
i go my marriage is my number one
priority my business is number two and
my family is number three
that's the reality now i'm sure as my
family members it's not lovely to think
that you're in third place but my thing
is i'm trying to spend when i spend time
with them i'm spending quality time i am
focused on them i am a hundred percent
there not trying to be perfect but i'm
completely engaged and by being
completely engaged they don't feel like
they're in position three because i've
allocated that time to be with them and
i'm not trying to work at the same time
that i'm with them when i'm with them
i'm with them and that's that but in
terms of making sure that things are
done in order
they're in that order so if cleaning
house is really important to you but
it's your fourth priority
then it's going to suffer and then the
question becomes why would you beat
yourself up for doing things in the
right order so you know that there is a
finite amount of time you know that if
these are the five things you want to
accomplish you only have 100 of your
time you're going to allocate a certain
percentage of your time to each of those
then what you're saying is this will get
the results that the percentage of time
that i've allocated to it allows it to
get
and just being really comfortable so i
don't beat myself up over that because i
know
it's physics i am up against physics i
cannot slow time down so the reality is
that i'm only going to be able to get so
much done now of course i can work to
become more efficient and all of that
stuff and i do but at the end of the day
i realize that either holding myself to
this ridiculously high
expectation of perfectionism actually
reduces the number of things that i can
get done because that final 20 ends up
taking more time and energy than the 80
that got the result anyway
so
looping around that
instead of saying cool i'm going to get
there i might have to win ugly but i'm
going to get there and then putting
things in order so that i know yep the
thing at the bottom belongs at the
bottom for a reason and it is not going
to get the time and attention that the
other things are going to get
because that's how ordering things works
so you have to be fearless when it comes
to putting things in order but oddly
enough really really a lot of people get
tripped up with that don't let that be
you
own it
own what matters to you in order
write it down and stick to it
if you do that
and then you don't need every little
thing to be perfect you can make some
crazy progress in the things that matter
most other things will fall by the
wayside it is what it is
all right next
any tips on how to embrace my drive to
accomplish things with a high degree of
quality while also being able to be
content with what i actually get done
all right so you you're setting your
expectations too high
you're triggering this sense of
inadequacy in yourself so i will tell
you that kicking yourself in the ass is
super powerful
but
my rule is i never do anything that
diminishes my sense of self
why because it actually makes you less
effective
and effectiveness at moving towards my
goal
is the barometer by which i judge
whether something was a success or not
and if i have made a decision and it
moves me away from my goals because it's
making me feel badly about myself
because i've set a standard that's too
high i'm nitpicking myself to death now
i'm getting worse that's moving me away
from my goal and so i'm not going to do
that i don't allow that in my life
i don't allow it in my life i do not
allow myself to do things that diminish
my sense of self and move me backwards
so when i feel it happening
i'm like hey even if it's true even if i
am the biggest loser that ever walked
this earth reinforcing that in myself
will make me capable of less therefore i
don't do it i have a bright line in my
life that says i only do
and believe
that which moves me towards my goals
so
we're just going to
recognize as we set these expectations
that it doesn't make sense to do
anything that diminishes ourselves so
we're not going to set expectations that
are so high that we know that we are
bound to fail or
to set high expectations i love that
reach for the farthest star in the
world
but don't value yourself for whether or
not you achieve it
value yourself for the sincere pursuit
meaning you really showed up you really
tried to get to that far star
to achieve some insane goal it was not
rhetoric you really showed up you got in
there you bled for this thing but the
whole time you're valuing yourself
you're cheering yourself on because
you're really trying you're the man in
the arena
covered in blood sweat and dirt
you might be getting your ass handed to
you
but you're trying
and if you're trying then you should be
rewarding yourself and if you're
rewarding yourself then you should feel
better about it which makes you more
likely to get back in the ring and fight
and if that is the thing that leads you
towards your goals which of course it is
then we know that we are going to do and
believe in that thing because now we're
in the arena we're fighting our
behaviors line up with our desire to
achieve that goal
so
don't
worry about whether or not you actually
ever get there because let me tell you
success
cannot be guaranteed
struggle can you will struggle i cannot
guarantee that you will be successful
but the juice
is never going to be the success it's
never going to be the accolades just
as there is no feast so grand that you
will never be hungry again
there is no accomplishment so profound
that it won't be fleeting
no matter how big no matter how much
money you make
it will never be quote unquote enough
because you're playing a game of
neurochemistry and your neurochemistry
is designed to no matter how big your
meal was last time to get you back out
hunting again it's just how it works
all desire is like that it's cyclical
it'll feel awesome for a minute for a
day for a week maybe a month
but let me tell you you're going to want
to get back out there you're going to
want to hunt you're going to want to
accomplish again so don't value yourself
for that this is how people end up
making a billion dollars only to feel as
lost and empty as ever
you have a hole inside of you that can
only be filled with progress
meaning and purpose
it can't be filled with accomplishment
irony of ironies
but that's the way
an evolutionarily derived mind works
you have to be pushed
to go on the journey
over and over and over and over and over
and over and over
satiety
satisfaction
contentment
or anathema
to nature to survival
so of course
you're never going to be able to sit in
that
you're going to keep going again and
again and again and again
so
embrace that drive
accomplish
huge things
if you can
but only value yourself for the sincere
pursuit
at what point does holding yourself to a
high standard crossover into an
unhealthy pursuit of perfection
like we were talking about in the last
answer the second it diminishes your
sense of self you are doing something
wrong
ask yourself
why do i care about being perfect
have you ever stopped to ask yourself
that why do you care about being perfect
i think a lot of times the reasons that
people care about being perfect is
the
job that they're doing never feels
right it never feels good enough there's
anxiety they don't believe that they are
worthy even in failure and so if you
don't believe that you're worthy even in
failure then you're going to keep
working on something in something in
something and something and something
something until
you're like it just can't be any better
it is now perfect now i can give it to
the world you're never going to feel
like that because the desire for
perfectionism is really fear that you're
not good enough in failure and so if
you're not good enough in failure you're
going to be compelled to try to get it
to absolute perfection so there was
nothing left that you could have done
and quite frankly i think that when
people say perfection what they really
mean is that point at which it is so
good that
i am worthy
that it will be received well
and that all of that work isn't really
about perfectionism
it's about the fear of being rejected
and your hopes that you can make
something
so good that either you feel confident
that if i put it out now and the world
hates it i'm okay because it's that good
but in reality
i think that most people are doing it
because they don't feel worthy they
don't believe that they are worthy
especially not in failure and so to
actually release this thing and put it
out into the world is to face what feels
like an existential threat of rejection
that you aren't good enough that you'll
never be good enough that you're not
worthy you will never be worthy
and that
is why people chase perfection so
let go with that
and instead
be all about the pursuit be about
working on that thing that project that
piece of art that whatever
see how far you can push it
in a given time and then put it out see
how the world reacts and if they hate it
why'd they hate it learn about it do you
just need to get better was that not the
right audience but instead of thinking
that oh my god i'm not worthy if this
isn't accepted and embraced and
celebrated
which is
paralyzing just know that when you put
it out into the world you're going to
get a data point
about whether that audience liked that
thing at that moment
none of that means that you lack worth
what is that my friends i am very
excited to announce that impact theory's
major web 3 project codenamed the avatar
project is almost here as most of you
know for the past year we've been
focused on building the future of this
company in web 3. if you've already
joined us as a founder's key holder you
know exactly what i'm talking about we
have so many different reveals for the
project coming up guys including the
real name glimpses of the characters the
world and more so invite you to join me
in my discord channel for more
information and frequent competitions
and challenges when you click the link
on the screen you can accept that invite
and once you verify that you're not a
robot
with or without any knowledge of web3
you'll instantly be a part of the most
empowering community i've ever put
together and will make sure to keep you
up to date with upcoming news about
avatar get ready to level up click the
link and join me in the discord until
then be legendary take care peace
how do i go about determining a standard
how much is good enough i have optimized
my sleep diet and working methods i need
an answer to improve my efficiency and
for peace of mind okay this isn't about
efficiency
i don't even think it's about peace of
mind
the way you go about setting a standard
is
what's the
lowest bar that you need to hit in order
to get to your goal
i mean that's really the question now if
your goal is i want to be proud and i
want to feel like it represents
the absolute pinnacle of what i'm
capable of today okay i can actually get
behind striving to do that as long as it
stays positive my goal isn't for this to
sell for a million dollars my goal isn't
for this to
be
echoed in the annals of history my goal
is to create something that represents
the pinnacle of what i'm capable of
right now today
i can get behind that if that's your
goal get after it
if it is a project at work okay what do
we need to do in order to get the result
that we want who's our customer right
who are we trying to impress what do we
have to do to win people over again
going back to that idea of 80 20. a lot
of times 80 of the effort
gets you
where you need to go and going the extra
20 is really just wasted time because
there's no sort of additional benefit
like you got the job you sold the
product you did whatever now it doesn't
mean aim low
but it does mean that if the job gets
done
at
eight units of energy you're better off
applying the extra two units of energy
to something else
instead of again going back to that fear
of rejection nitpicking trying to make
it perfect unless again your goal is
how can i express what i'm capable of
right now in this moment but even then
it's got to be right now in this moment
you can't beat yourself up and oh my god
this isn't what i wanted it to be
it represents the best you can do right
now like if you've really given yourself
over to it and you've really tried again
rewarding yourself for the sincere
pursuit so you're rewarding yourself for
the sincere pursuit and the end product
represents the best of what you're
capable at right now
now if you want to be an olympian and go
on and get even better amazing
but remember it's the pursuit of the
championship performance that's
interesting
it isn't
winning a championship so getting in
there producing art by the pound as they
call it there's a very famous um
anecdote it's not quite a study but
there was an art teacher who had their
students do either one piece of art they
worked on it the whole semester turn it
in for a grade or
you can get graded on the pounds of art
that you produce over the semester
so every piece could be trash
but if you have a lot of pounds then you
will get a good grade cool
one piece done really well or art by the
pound now what the teacher has found is
that the best piece of art
the best piece of art
every semester semester after semester
year after year comes out of the art by
the pound group
why
because they weren't worried about being
perfect and they actually got good at
art
they were taking things to that 80 stage
learning the lessons that they needed to
learn going another 20 isn't going to
teach them more about that piece
certainly not enough to warrant the
amount of time it's what's called
diminishing returns maybe they would
have learned a little bit more by going
the extra 20 of the way but they're not
learning enough to warrant the amount of
time and so by just getting in there and
producing and producing and producing
creating learning pushing trying new
things you broaden your skill set you
get a little braver you're more
courageous you're taking chances because
you know you can always do another one
now in that you're awash with all these
80 pieces where you're learning all of
this stuff and you just inevitably beat
the person that spent all their time
trying to perfect one piece
art by the pound
the medical should always be to get
better
so once you get to the point where
you've learned the lessons that you need
to do aha you had that aha moment
it's on to the next one
turn it in on to the next one
aim to have a perfect career
which is
full of
failure
embarrassment
and just
rich
with hard-won skill
that's perfection we're chasing
how do you find a boundary between
constructive and deconstructive
self-criticism what are mental red flags
or checkpoints we can use to catch
ourselves when our motives are
perfection over improvement
okay so
we have to really anchor in on this idea
of
is what i'm saying to myself diminishing
myself now again if you're giving a
little bit of self-criticism some
punishment to get yourself moving to
take things more seriously that can be
incredibly beneficial but if you're ever
spending more than 20 percent of your
time
criticizing yourself
then you're taking the darkness which
can be very powerful very useful
and you're letting it become corrosive
once it becomes corrosive it's no longer
useful so we have to understand there's
tremendous power in the dark side
but that it's a corrosive power and that
if you use it too much it will
destroy the only thing in life that
actually matters which is how you feel
about yourself when you're by yourself
now
giving yourself a little bit of a
gut check
smack to the face kick in the ass
however you want to think about it
because you know you could have
tried harder
you know you are capable of more
i get that
like on days where i fail to get out of
bed in 10 minutes or less
i don't feel good about that feel bad
about that i don't want to feel good
about that but i also don't curl up in a
ball and cry for the rest of the day
it's like alright you failed that sucks
that does not it's not who you are
it was a failing
you shouldn't feel good about this
but the idea is to do better next time
to put a little more effort into that
day to make sure that that bad start
actually puts me in a better place
because now i'm hyper vigilant
really coming into this paying attention
and if you come into your life paying
attention with that vigilance knowing
i'm going to face that mistake
i understand
why i did it i was feeling lazy or
whatever
own it don't try to run from it don't
hide it
and say cool i'm going to do better for
the rest of the day and also figure out
why why am i not feeling excited what is
it that's lacking that made it hard for
me to do that to get out of bed whatever
and as you stare nakedly at your
inadequacies you own your mistakes you
don't blame anybody else you just retain
your power by recognizing that if you do
something different you can get a
different result
and now
by
making that different decision
we're able to
adjust our outcomes and that at the end
of the day is the goal you want to
retain that control so that you can
adjust the outcomes now in terms of the
mental red flags to know when your
motives are spilling over into an
improve into perfectionism instead of
improvement
is are you feeling insecure
because if you're feeling insecure about
that piece and that's the thing that's
pushing you to want to work on it more
and more and more then you need to let
go because what you're holding on to is
the outcome you're holding on to what
other people are going to think you're
not trying to learn you're not trying to
get better right so the idea of
improvement is we've got to try we've
got to get in there we've got to be
fearless we've got to be bold we've got
to try things we've got to
really systematically
set an intention and say i'm going to
try this thing today now if you're
trying something new odds are that it's
going to suck but you've got to be
looking at
what is it that went wrong here now if
you get hyped up not when you get it
perfect not when somebody comes in the
room it's like oh my god that's amazing
but instead when you understand why it
wasn't working before and now you can
fix it there's this great video on the
internet of a guy learning a skateboard
trick it's insane you watch him fall
over and over and over it looks so
painful
but you hear him keep talking to himself
oh i need to i'm turning too fast or i'm
doing the kick too early or whatever and
then by the end he keeps refining it and
keeps talking to himself and all the
while you could be like yo this guy's
embarrassing himself man this really
looks like it hurts because it's like
him falling 30 times 40 times
and then he finally gets it
but if he had been like you're a loser
you're never going to figure this out
then he really wouldn't figure it out
because that belief is going to change
his behaviors but instead you can just
tell he knows he's going to have to
suffer he knows that he's going to
embarrass himself he knows that this
looks ugly he knows he looks stupid but
he knows on the other side of that
process
of focusing relentlessly on learning
that he'll actually learn he will
develop the skill he will improve it's
what i call the only belief that matters
when you believe
that if i do this thing and practice it
i'm actually going to get better and
then i will have a new skill and that
skill will have utility when you believe
that then you actually take the actions
that you need
to make that a reality
and that's what this guy was doing so
that's the mental red flag
can you feel yourself being insecure
or can you feel yourself being obsessed
over figuring out what am i doing wrong
because when your obsession flips from
how do i look what are other people
going to think am i ever going to get
this right
and instead it goes to
what am i missing
what am i doing wrong there's something
i'm doing something wrong and this is
figure outable i can solve this problem
when you get into that mode then you
really do solve the problem and you
really do come out way ahead
that's how you do it
that is how you deal with
imperfection
getting better at something
not being beholden to your insecurities
so guys this is about learning growing
and getting better and that requires you
to do a lot of embarrassing difficult
painful things over and over and over
but if you're not worried about what
other people think you weren't worried
about being a perfectionist you're just
worried about learning the lesson
go forth and learn the lesson speaking
of things that will help you learn the
lesson if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary take care peace